Java Swings 
Description
Do you want to develop a standalone application without any dependency on web development? Then using Java Swings is the right choice for it. 
Swing is a part of Java Foundation Classes (JFC) which helps in creating a standalone application i.e. window-based application which acts as a replacement for Abstract Windowing Toolkit (AWT). 
Swings are
1.	Platform Independent
2.	Uses MVC pattern
3.	Provides rich control of components while comparing with AWT
4.	Light weighted
5.	Supports plugins look and feel
Assignment
Develop a student management system with separate login for students and teacher where the student can 
1.	view/insert/update/delete their personal information
2.	View their marks and percentage
while the teachers can 
1.	insert/update the student mark details
2.	Register a student and give him the login credentials
Java JPA
Description
Java Persistence API (JPA) is an open source which has the collection of best of ideas from existing persistence technologies like Hibernate, Toplink and JDO resulted in a standardized specification to build a persistence layer. It helps in storing the vast of amount of data into database where JPA Provider framework helps in easy interaction with the database instance

JDBC
Description
Java DataBase Connectivity is a Java Standard API which is used to create independent connections between a variety databases and Java Programming language. The five main steps used in creating connection for any Java application with DB is as follows
1.	Register the driver class
2.	Creating connection
3.	Creating statement
4.	Executing queries
5.	Closing connection
Assignment
Electricity Bill Management System
Java Up casting and down casting
Permitting an object of sub class type to be treated as a super class type is called up casting while the down casting is vice versa.
Up Casting	Down Casting
Casting to a super type	Casting to a sub type
Super casting is always allowed	Sub casting undergoes type check and throws ClassCastException if required
Ex : Vehicle v = new Car()	Ex : Car c = (Car) new Vehicle ()

Assignment
Perform both the types of casting using Number, integer, float and double data types.
Java Getter and Setter
Description
Getter – As the name suggests, a getter method gets the value of the member variable which is declared as private
Setter – A setter method sets the value of a member variable
The main reason to use getter and setter methods are to implement Information Hiding to have tight coupling so that the classes doesn’t reveal unnecessary data to the outside world.
Assignment
Create a library management system implementing book lending and displaying the inventory as and when a book is issued/returned. Make sure you use the getter and setter methods while storing /retrieving any data about the book

